---
layout: post
title: "30 Days of THM Day 10"
date: 2024-06-21 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [post, hacking]
tags: [post, hacking]
---

Welcome to 30 Days of TryHackMe, where I try to build a learning streak using the online cybersecurity training platform, TryHackMe. Today, I am going through Vulnversity, in the Basic Computer Exploitation section. This section is all about exploiting different applications.


Vulnversity is about using active recon tools like nmap and gobuster for initial access, and using SUID for privilege escalation.

The first section of the room is Active Recon, where I used nmap to look for the services on the target. The room recommends -sV is for service versions of the protocols running on the target network.

Other useful nmap flags:

-p<port>: port scan

-p-: scan all ports

-Pn: disables host discovery

-A Enables OS and version detection

-sC: default nmap scripts

-v: verbose

-sU: UDP port scans

-sS: TCP SYN port scan

Scanning the network using -sV got these services:

Scanning gets these ports:

FTP on port 21

SSH on port 22

netbios on 139, 445

http-proxy on 3128, and http on 3333


After scanning the network, I used gobuster to scan for directories on the web server. Normally http is on port 80, but since the port was 3333, I needed to specify that in the url. I used the -u flag in order to specify the URL, and -w to specify the wordlist.


And through there, I found an interesting looking directory.


I then used burpsuite to figure out what kind of file extension I could upload to the server, and used a php reverse shell start a listener on the target machine. To make the shell a little bit nicer, I used this command:

python3 -c ‘import pty; pty.spawn(“/bin/bash”)’

I then searched for SUID binaries, looked for ways to exploit those binaries, and spawned a root shell.


This was a bit of a hand-holding CTF, and I do believe that the rest of these challenges will be much of the same. It is nice to get some guidance, and since this path is for complete beginners, I can understand how it would be helpful.

