---
layout: post
title: "30 Days of THM Day 11"
date: 2024-06-22 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [post, hacking]
tags: [post, hacking]
---

Welcome to 30 Days of TryHackMe, where I try to build a learning streak using the online cybersecurity training platform, TryHackMe. Today, I will be tackling the next room in the Basic Computer Exploitation section.

Continuing with the theme from yesterday, this room is all about exploiting an intentionally vulnerable machine. This room is a little bit less handholding than the previous room. This room promises to teach brute forcing, hash cracking, service enumeration, and Linux enumeration.

After the machine started, I started with an nmap scan of the target. I put the scan in a file for future reference.


I found these services open on the target:

22/tcp open ssh

80/tcp open http

139/tcp open netbios-ssn

445/tcp open microsoft-ds

8009/tcp open ajp13

8080/tcp open http-proxy

I headed over to the web application and found a page that said they were undergoing maintenance. Inspecting the page and the HTML, however, did give me a clue.



Changing the port to 8080 also gave me this:


And learning a little bit more about port 8009 and ajp13, that protocol is used for communication between Tomcat and the apache web server.


I started up a gobuster scan of the web app to look for some directories. I found the /development directory, and in there found dev.txt and j.txt.



In j.txt, I found out that J’s password is easy to crack. That probably meant that their password is in a common wordlist. This meant that if I found out who J was, I could brute force my way in through ssh. I also gathered that K’s password wouldn’t be easily cracked.


I used smbclient to get in and found staff.txt, which contained J and K’s full names, Jan and Kay. Since Jan’s credentials were weaker, I used that username to make initial access. Firing up the hydra tool, I tried to brute force the ssh password for Jan. The syntax for this was hydra -l jan -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt <IP Address> ssh.

Once I was in, I took a look around. Jan’s home directory had nothing of value, but Kay had a home directory. There was a file, called pass.bak, which is the user’s password. And there was a hidden .ssh directory. There Kay’s public and private keys were located.


I brought over the private key to the attack box, and followed this guide to get john the ripper to crack the password. After cracking the password, I was able to use the key to ssh into Kay’s account. After that, I was able to actually open up pass.bak and figure out Kay’s password.

