---
layout: post
title: "30 Days of THM: Day 6"
date: 2024-06-16 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [post, hacking]
tags: [post, hacking, tryhackme, medium]
---

Welcome to 30 Days of TryHackMe, where I try to build a streak of learning through the cybersecurity training website TryHackMe. Today I am picking up where I left off on the Complete Beginner Pathway, and I am going to do the Windows Exploitation Basics section.



The first room is Windows Fundamentals 1, and this is going through the basics of the Windows operating system. It starts out with a brief history history of Windows as it went through it’s many iterations and updates. It was published before Windows 11, and it included some information on that in an update. This room goes over the file system as well. It goes over users and groups, and goes over the task manager.


This room is an introduction to the Window operating system, and this room does end with text that says that every topic in the room can be delved into in a deeper way.


The next room, Windows Fundamentals 2, goes into more detail about some other utilities in the Windows operating system. This room goes over the various system configuration tools. Type in msconfig into the search bar on a Windows machine and you can bring it up. This room goes over UAC settings (User Account Control), computer management, system information, the resource monitor, command prompt and the registry editor.

I think the thing about this section that I liked most so far is the deep dive into an operating system that I never really did a deep dive into. Windows is ubiquitous, but beyond the most basic things I never really used any of this stuff.


The next section is Active Directory Basics. If you have ever worked in a corporate environment, or at a university, chances are that they used Active Directory to manage their computers.

It goes into the why of Active Directory, how to use it to perform basic tasks. This section would be useful for anyone in IT, not just cybersecurity, but properly utilizing Active Directory is essential to securing an organization.


The next few sections are all about Metasploit, the security and penetration testing framework. The first section is Metasploit: Introduction. This is, as the title suggests, an introduction metasploit. It goes into just looking around when you type in msfconsole into the command line, while also setting all the options when you might use a certain exploit.


Next up is Metasploit: Exploitation, which gives a little bit more hands-on experience with metasploit. This was a really helpful room for me, because it went over a lot of things that I didn’t know to do in metasploit. I didn’t know how to set up multiple workspaces, for example, and I was only slightly familiar with meterpreter, so getting more experience was nice.

And the next room is Metasploit: Meterpreter, which is all about meterpreter. Meterpreter is kind of like a reverse shell on steroids. It adds a lot more functionality to a shell, and adds a lot more things to play around with. This room is all about using Meterpeter to find some secrets in a system. It walks you through most of it, but it does a good job of giving hands on skills.


And the final room in this section is the culmination of everything learned. It is called Blue, and it is all about exploiting a vulnerable machine. It’s not meant to be a complete vulnerable machine, and it isn’t really meant to be super difficult, it is more meant to gain hands on practice.


This machine is vulnerable to MS17–010, aka eternalblue. You exploit it using metasploit and a meterpreter shell, and you gain access and look for valuable information.


