---
layout: post
title: "30 Days of THM Day 27"
date: 2024-07-12 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [post, hacking]
tags: [post, hacking, medium]
---

Welcome back to 30 Days of TryHackMe, where I try to build a learning streak using the cybersecurity training platform TryHackMe. Today, I am going to continue the Burp Suite section with the next section, Burp Suite: Intruder. Here are some notes from that section.


The Intruder module allows automated request manipulation and enables tasks such as fuzzing and brute forcing. Fuzzing is an automated process of entering lots of data into a program and seeing what happens. Intruder is similar to command line tools like wfuzz and ffuf. Intruder in the Burp Community (free) Edition is rate-limited, so most security practitioners use those tools instead.

The four sub-tabs within Intruder are:

Positions


Payloads


Resource Pool

Settings

The Positions tab is for the locations where our payloads will be introduced/inserted. Those sections are highlighted in green and enclosed in this ‘§’ symbol.

In the payloads tab we can create, assign, and configure payloads for the attack. The sections within the Positions tab are:

Payload Sets, where we can figure a payload set.

Payload Settings: provides options specific to the selected payload

Payload Processing: we can define rules to be applied to each payload

Payload Encoding: Allows us to customize the encoding options.

There are a few different types of attacks:

Sniper: cycles through the payloads, inserting one payload at a time into each position defined in the request.

Battering Ram: sends all payloads simultaneously.

Pitchfork: Enables the simultaneous test of multiple positions with different payloads. There are multiple payload sets defined, and each are associated with a specific position.

Cluster Bomb: Performs a sniper-like attack on each position but simultaneously tests all payloads from each set.

